ArchLinux is a Linux distribution known for its modular and lightweight architecture, suitable for advanced users. One of its strengths is the vast availability of packages through the Pacman package management system. However, not all packages are present in the official repositories, and in these cases, users can use the AUR (Arch User Repository), a collection of packages created and maintained by the ArchLinux user community.

Users are able to compile AUR packages in order to install them on their system. Below is a complete and detailed description of how this process works.

**Step 1: Install the base-devel package**

To compile AUR packages on ArchLinux, you need to install the base-devel package, which contains all the necessary tools for compilation. To do this, run the following command in the terminal:

```
sudo pacman -S base-devel
```

This will install all the necessary packages for compilation, including basic compiler tools (packages like automake, autoconf, gcc, binutils, etc).

**Step 2: Download the AUR package via Git**

To access the AUR package, you need to download the PKGBUILD file. This defines how the package must be compiled and installed on the system. The easiest way to do this is to use the AUR package management software, namely git.

First, you need to install git. To do this, type the following command in the terminal:

```
sudo pacman -S git
```

Once installed, you can download AUR packages with the following command:

```
git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/package-name.git
```

Remember to replace "package-name" with the name of the package you want to download.

**Step 3: Compile the AUR package**

After downloading the PKGBUILD file, you can compile the package. To do this, navigate to the AUR package folder where you downloaded the PKGBUILD file.

After entering the package folder directory, run the command:

```
makepkg -s
```

This option tells makepkg to install all necessary dependencies at compile time. Dependencies will be searched from official repositories and the AUR.

The compilation process will start automatically. This may take some time, depending on the size and complexity of the package.

At the end of the compilation, an installable package with the .pkg.tar.xz extension will be created.

**Step 4: Install the AUR package**

Once compilation is complete, you can install the package using the following command:

```
sudo pacman -U package-name.pkg.tar.xz
```

Where "package-name" must be replaced with the name of the package generated by the makepkg command.

**Examples of AUR package compilation**

To give an example of compiling an AUR package, let's consider the Clean package.

1. Install the base-devel package as indicated above.

2. Install git with the command:

```
sudo pacman -S git
```

3. Download the Clean package via Git using the command:

```
git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/clean.git
```

4. Access the clean package directory.

```
cd clean
```

5. Compile the package

```
makepkg -s
```

6. Install the package

```
sudo pacman -U clean*.pkg.tar.xz
```

These are the steps necessary to successfully compile and install the Flameshot package. This example can be used as a reference for compiling other AUR packages.
